---
title: 'Popular Open Source Libraries for Power System Analysis'
date: 2022-11-29
author_profile: false
permalink: /posts/2022/11/bestps/
tags:
  - Power System Modeling
  - ANDES
  - LTB
  - Open Source
  - Tools
---
[🏆 A ranked list of awesome open-source libraries and tools for Power Pystem Analysis](https://github.com/jinningwang/best-of-ps)

This curated list contains more than 30 open-source projects grouped into 11 categories. All projects are ranked by a project-popular score, which is calculated based on various metrics automatically collected from GitHub and different package managers.

# Selected Contents

## Dynamic

### [LTB andes](https://github.com/cuihantao/andes)

Python toolbox / library for power system transient dynamics simulation with symbolic modeling and numerical analysis 🔥

### [PowerSimulationsDynamics.jl](https://github.com/nrel-siip/powersimulationsdynamics.jl)

Julia package to run Dynamic Power System simulations. Part of the Scalable Integrated Infrastructure Planning Initiative at the National Renewable Energy Lab.

## Steady State

### **[pandapower](https://www.pandapower.org/)**

An easy to use open source tool for power system modeling, analysis and optimization with a high degree of automation.

### **[PyPSA](https://pypsa.org/)**

PyPSA stands for **Python for Power System Analysis**. The aim of this project is to provide an open-source python environment for state-of-the-art energy system modelling. Here you find links to projects and research related to the PyPSA environment.

## Power System Co-Simulation

### **[Large-scale Testbed (LTB)](https://github.com/CURENT/ltb2)**

The Large-scale Testbed (LTB) is a tightly integrated, closed-loop platform for rapid prototyping of power systems.

# Project Popularity Score

- Has homepage link & description: `+ 1`
- Has an existing GitHub repository: `+ 1`
- Has a license: `+ 1`
- Has a commonly used license (e.g. MIT): `+ 1`
- Has multiple releases: `+ 1`
- Has stable releases based on semantic version: `+ 1`
- Has a release that is less than 6 months old: `+ 1`
- Repo was update in the last 3 months: `+ 1`
- Is older than 6 months: `+ 1`
- Metrics from GitHub & package mangers:
  - Number of stars: `+ log(COUNT / 2)`
  - Number of contributors: `+ log(COUNT / 2) - 1`
  - Number of commits: `+ log(COUNT / 2) - 1`
  - Number of forks: `+ log(COUNT / 2)`
  - Number of monthly downloads: `+ log(COUNT / 2) - 1`
  - Number of dependent projects: `+ log(COUNT / 1.5)`
  - Number of watchers: `+ log(COUNT / 2) - 1`
  - Number of closed issues: `+ log(COUNT / 2) - 1`

**NOTE**: This calculation is just chosen by ***EXPERIENCE***. There is ***NO*** scientific proof that this really reflects the ***QUALITY*** of a project.

# Project Data Collection

The data collection can be deficient for the projects that are not majorly hosted in GitHub.
